# Rust Language Contributor Survey FAQ

In this FAQ we try to answer common questions about the Rust Project
Contributor Survey. If in your opinion there is a missing question or if you
have a concern about this document, please open an
[issue](https://github.com/rust-lang/surveys/issues/new) or contact the [Rust
Community Team](mailto:community-team@rust-lang.org) directly.

## What are the goals of the survey?

This survey seeks to identify areas of support which will most effectively
benefit the project. Our hope is that the foundation and other organizations
seeking to support the Rust Project can then use the information gathered via
this survey to guide their programs over the next year.

## How much time will it take to answer the survey?

On average, it should take from 5 to 15 minutes.

## What kind of questions are included in the survey?

This survey gathers demographic information that can be used to group feedback
based on areas of involvment and feedback questions that seek to identify
specific positives and negatives within the rust project contribution
experience.

## How will we use the data from the survey responses?

The answers from the survey will be anonymized, aggregated, and summarized. A
high level writeup will be posted to blog.rust-lang.org.

## How is personally identifiable information handled?

Nearly every question in the survey is optional. You are welcome to share as
much or as little information as you are comfortable with. Only the community
survey team will have access to the raw data, and only anonymized aggregate
data is shared with others.

This year’s survey was commissioned by the Rust Foundation and your responses
are subject to the Foundation’s [privacy
policy](https://foundation.rust-lang.org/policies/privacy-policy).

## Where and when is the survey results report published?

We expect to publish results from the survey within a month or two of the
survey completion. The survey results will be posted to the [project's
blog](https://blog.rust-lang.org).

## How do you define what counts as a contribution and what does it mean to be an active contributor?

A contribution is any sort of interaction that benefits the Rust Project. For
example, Documentation, Code Review (PRs), Design Review (RFCs/MCPs/FCPs),
Issue Triage, Issue Reporting, Moderation, New Features, Bug Fixes, Performance
enhancements, Communication (e.g. writing blog posts, release notes, preparing
for meetings or taking minutes), supporting/mentoring/guiding other
contributors, Rollups/CI/Releases, and Governance all count as contribution,
and this list is not by any means exhaustive. Anything that assists technical
discussions, identifies issues, or otherwise benefits the project or the
contributors to the project likely counts as a contribution.

"Active contributor" is a flexible classification that is intended to identify
individuals who have contributed to the project and plan to continue to
contribute to the project, regardless of how long the gap between said
contributions is. If you're not sure if you're an active contributor then
you're probably an active contributor, but ultimately it comes down to if you
feel comfortable identifying yourself as such.

The primary difference is that the follow up questions asked of active
contributors assume a greater familiarity with the contribution process than
those asked of potential contributors and non-contributors.

## What is the difference between a team, working group, and a project group? How can I tell how my team/group is classified?

Team, working group, and project group are classifications that the project
uses to loosely classify the various groups that make up the rust project.
These groups are identified in the [team
repo](https://github.com/rust-lang/team), and can be disambiguated by the
`kind` field in their toml entry in the `team/teams` folder.

- team have no `kind` field (e.g. compiler team)
- working groups have `kind = "working-group"` (e.g. working group polonius)
- project groups have `kind = "project-group"` (e.g. project group error handling)

If you're unsure of how the groups you're involved in are classified, check
their entry in the team repo.
